# Pseudocerebellum Project

Information about the cerebellum as an associative memory

The project is organized around a website that collects and abstracts
information about the cerebellum as an associative memory.  The
website is a community effort.  Ideally, it will build a table with an
entry for each neuron type, the number of neurons of that type, what
neurons they connect to with what fan-ins and fan-outs, nature of
connections (excitatory, inhibitory), and firing rate (typical,
range).  The table is referred to as "Cerebellum Facts."  Each "fact"
is accompanied by a reference or references to the source.  In
addition to the list of references, the website has an annotated
bibliography, to help viewers navigate the material.  The annotations
are informal, more like comments.  They are written by us participants
in the website and are meant to point out particulars about a paper
that struck us as significant and prompted us to recommend the paper
to others.


# Why the Cerebellum?

Human and animal memories work by association.  Among the brain's
circuits, the cerebellum's looks the most like an associative memory.
It is highly regular, has a small number of neuron types but more
neurons overall than the rest of the brain, and it has been modeled
mathematically since Marr's theory of cerebellar cortex (1968).  Among
models of the brain's circuits, the cerebellum's is perhaps the most
comprehensive and informative.

Pseudocerebellum is an associative memory for high-dimensional
vectors--for vectors with thousands of dimensions.  When cued with a
vector, it finds the most similar vector or vectors among a set of
stored vectors: its function is k-nearest-neighbor search among tens
of thousands of vectors.  Associative memory is a key component of an
architecture for computing with high-dimensional vectors--for
"hyperdimensional" computing.  Building a fast and energy-efficient
associative memory is a major engineering challenge.

The website is for gathering information about the cerebellum that
could lead to the engineering of efficient associative memories for
high-dimensional vectors.  Research of this kind was began in the
1980s and presented by Egon Loebner in a paper on "Intelligent network
management and functional cerebellum synthesis" at IEEE COMPCON Spring
1989, but not followed up on.  However, new ideas about computing with
vectors, starting with Plate's Holographic Reduced Representation
(HRR), have made the building of an efficient associative memory into
a problem with practical significance.

We will start with neuroanatomy.  Where do inputs to the cerebellum
come from and in what numbers?  Where do outputs go and in what
numbers.  What connections are internal to the cerebellum, and again
in what numbers?  The paper by Loebner serves as a model.  Its numbers
refer to the cerebellum of the cat.  We want those connections and
numbers also for the human brain and would collect them into a table
with an entry for each neuron type.  In addition to connections and
numbers, the table would include one or more references, including
page numbers, to where the information is found.

In addition to cerebellar facts, the website will have PDFs of
cerebellum papers and a bibliography, plus comments written by us
highlighting the reasons for including the paper in the website.  What
caught your attention, what did you learn, what might be helpful for
someone else?

Cerebellum's importance for motor coordination was established long
ago.  We therefore expect that information on this website will help
us design more agile robots.  There is increasing evidence that the
cerebellum is equally important for higher cognitive functions,
including language.  Since the problems of language motivated the
development of high-dimensional computing (HRR and its kin),
cerebellum-like associative memory is likely to be important for all
kinds of learning, not just for learning of motor control.  Its huge
number of neurons and synapses suggests a capacity that is large
enough to support learning over a lifetime.

We hope to make the website into a source of information and a place
of self-study.  It is focused narrowly on the cerebellum as an
associative memory.  Even that can be much to keep up with,
considering the volume of research on the cerebellum that is reported
every year.
